[tense music plays]
[ominous music plays]
[eerie ethereal music plays]
-[gentle music plays]
-[inhales deeply]
[chuckles lightly]
-Hi.
What?
Nothing.
Are you all right?
I mean, was it...
Yes.
It was different
to what I thought.
Oh...
A good different?
Yes. No, I didn't mean it was...
It was lovely.
-Was...
-No. Uh, yes.
Amazing.
Really.
-Really?
-Yes.
-[giggles]
-[chuckles]
Do I snore?
Like a Viking horn.
-Really?
-Mm.
You know, you make these whimpering
puppy noises
-when you sleep.
-[chuckles] That's not true.
Are you serious?
[kisses]
No.
You were quiet.
Peaceful.
Very beautiful.
You do know that?
And you.
-Don't say it.
-No, you can't go.
-I have to.
-No.
-What happens if Pendragon betrays you?
-Then you must help protect the Fey.
They don't trust me.
They follow Gawain. They won't--
-[panicked screaming]
-[man] Fire! Fire!
[Nimue] What happened?
His throat was cut first,
then he was burned.
[Cora] This is Wroth and his blood vow.
My queen, the Fauns demand justice.
Do we have proof?
Wroth has claimed the southern gate road
and threatened to kill any Fey
that agree to this Pendragon offer.
My men have already been fired upon
this morning.
[Arthur] Nimue is offering her life
for these ships.
To refuse them is death.
I'll go see Wroth.
This is my doing. I'll go.
I can't risk anything happening to you.
Get the others in the square
and ready to march.
The Fey are getting on those ships today.
[guard] Hello, brother.
Be safe, brother.
[Iris] Excuse me, sir.
[strangled gasping, groans]
I cannot sway you from this cause?
[sighs]
This cause is a handful of sand
slipping through my fingers.
[groans]
You're not well.
Just a fever from my travels.
At my age, you grow vulnerable to drafts.
That's a poor lie. You can do better.
I fear my presence here
endangers your agreement with King Uther.
It's a risk I have to take.
There's no other choice.
[Merlin] There is.
By sating his thirst for revenge,
we might lure out his better angels.
How?
Give him me.
What?
He's longed for my head for some time.
You're mad. No. I forbid it.
With respect, you are Queen of the Fey,
not of Merlin.
I told you I don't want your protection.
Well, I have a terrible habit
of not doing what I'm told.
Something I seem to have passed on
to my kin.
In addition,
I'm the only member of this court
who stands any chance
of getting audience with Uther
and divining his intentions.
If I sense betrayal is afoot,
I'll do all I can to warn you.
I don't want to see you hurt
because of me.
I don't want anyone else to be hurt
Well, that's just it.
You've made us all brave.
[inhales sharply]
We haven't had any time.
Never wish for more time.
[poignant music plays]
The gods might hear you
and grant that wish.
And I cannot sway you from this course?
To know me is to know yourself.
[grunts]
[man] What does he want?
This is no time to declare war
on your own kind.
Pendragon ships are coming
to save all of us. Thanks to Nimue.
[whispers in Tusk]
[translator] Your queen is a mad dog.
Fey that follow her
are traitors to their kind.
Your man drew first blood,
defied our queen.
[speaking Tusk]
She's not our queen.
And you're sure as hell not my chief.
This Man Blood is trying to save
the ungrateful lot of you.
-[speaking Tusk]
-Don't translate.
He understands me.
Don't you, Wroth?
Because you have a choice here.
You could be the last chief of the Tusks,
who stood his ground in Gramaire
until every last one
of a great warrior clan was slaughtered
over a blood vow.
Or you could be the first chief
of a new age,
who saved his people, languages,
and rituals for generations to come.
Your grandchildren will tell stories
of Wroth the Just,
Wroth the Wise,
who chose his people over his pride.
So...
which will it be?
Blood...
pays for blood.
-[snarls]
-[Tusks] Death!
Take mine.
Here! If that's what it takes
to save your hides, go on!
Blood pays for blood.
[ominous music plays]
Stop!
[exhales sharply]
A brave fool
is still a fool.
[Morgana] Nimue?
[mystical twinkling]
[ominous music plays]
Who are you?
Answer me.
[Widow] You have been touched
by the Cailleach.
-[Morgana] Are you a kind of Shadow Lord?
-She has given you the unnatural sight.
-What did you promise her in return?
-I'm not the unnatural one here.
[Widow] You have been cursed
by Dark Gods, child.
I can help you.
But only if you tell me the truth.
I saw you in the infirmary.
I saw your face.
You claim them, don't you?
You sort of claim the dead somehow.
Wait, why are you in this chamber?
[Widow] Do not question me!
And make no effort to interfere,
or you will see my face again.
Have you come for Nimue?
-[ghostly screeching]
-[Morgana shrieks]
[gasping]
[gasps loudly]
-Are...
-[breathes heavily]
-What's wrong? What's happened?
-[Morgana] Nothing.
No, I just got a bit light-headed,
that's all.
-I'm sorry, I shouldn't have come.
-Well, talk to me.
[ethereal music plays]
Morgana.
Um... [sniffles]
[inhales slowly] I'm leaving.
-What?
-I don't belong here.
-Of course you do.
-No, I'm not one of you.
-I'm not one of them.
-We need you.
I understand what you need to do,
but I have to find another way, Nimue.
-Do you still want to fight?
-Yes.
-For the Fey?
Then come with me.
[whispers] Nimue.
What's happening?
Wait, you're escaping?
[Nimue] No.
You are.
[indistinct yelling]
Help.
Where's Nimue?
I'm not sure.
What do you need?
Everything.
Snakes are stealing the furniture.
And we need to get those food stores
into the wagons.
Okay.
[Arthur] Fair enough.
We ride.
[uplifting music plays]
[sighs]
[door opens]
There you are.
Yeah.
They're not very happy about it,
but the Tusks will ride with us.
[Nimue] That's good news.
You've done well.
Nimue.
My hands are shaking.
-[breathes shakily]
-Please let me stay.
No. Arthur, I need you with them.
[poignant music plays]
Promise me.
Promise.
I promise.
I'm a bit jealous.
[sniffles]
I always wanted to go on a ship.
Missed mine by a day.
That was the day we met, actually.
I thought you were in Hawksbridge
for my singing.
You weren't terrible.
I wasn't terrible?
I mean, that's nice of you to say.
You thought you were just
the most devastating thing ever.
I knew you were a bit treacherous.
I didn't mind that.
I lost my breath when I saw you.
♪ With eyes like the ice on the sea ♪
♪ Say, my fair ♪
♪ Winter Lady ♪
[poignant music swells]
[ominous music plays]
You ignore my summons.
[monk] His Grace.
I cannot feel it.
I call out to him...
I reach out, and there is only darkness.
You are the avenging sword of light
in pitched battle
against the Lord of Darkness.
Did you think you could escape his touch?
His corruption?
The beast
does not tear the flesh,
it tears the soul.
[breathing shakily]
Do you love me, Father?
Of course I do.
[monk sobs]
Even if I am damned?
Those are dangerous words.
We will speak of this one last time.
[tense music plays]
[Carden] You were demon-born.
An abomination in the eyes of God.
But I spared you from the fire
because you could sense your own kind.
I gave you scripture.
I gave you discipline.
I forged you
into one of our sharpest blades.
I turned you against your Maker.
And I laid the first brick
on your road to salvation.
But I cannot
walk the road for you, my son.
I cannot save you from the flames.
You have to have the will
to do what is necessary.
Do you have the will, my son?
Yes, Father.
Then we shall not speak of this again.
-[Pym] I just found you again, you shit.
-[Nimue] We don't have any choice.
Well, what's gonna happen now?
I don't know.
But if I can, I'll find you.
-I promise.
-[man] Riders, ready!
How am I the one going
to the bloody desert kingdoms now?
[chuckles]
Why does it have to be you?
I'm all right.
I don't care about you.
I'm not all right. [sobs]
[sighs]
I love you, Pym.
[Pym] I love you.
[Fey folk] Born in the dawn...
Born in the dawn...
To pass in the twi...
To pass in the twilight.
[exhales slowly]
[poignant music plays]
[sniffles]
I'll protect them with my life.
I know you will.
[horse snorts]
[breathes shakily]
[poignant music continues]
[breathing heavily]
[indistinct yelling]
[ethereal music plays]
[breathing heavily]
He just showed up at the checkpoint,
Your Majesty.
Hello, Uther.
Dispensed with the formalities, have you?
Are you lying to her?
The Fey girl!
Just tell me what your intentions are.
-Did you send this monkey to lie for you?
-Have you lost your wits?
Quiet, fool.
The boy can speak for himself.
[yells] "Boy," is it?
[tuts] You're drunk.
That's not an answer.
[Merlin groans]
[groans]
[exhales slowly]
I guess my wine has spilled.
Who has done this to you?
[Merlin] No one.
Just a fisherman.
I got caught on the wrong hook.
I would think to find you
in better spirits
on the eve
of your greatest victory as king.
You've ended the Fey slaughter,
subdued the Church,
negotiated a firm but just peace
with the leader of the Fey rebellion,
and despite all of my best efforts
to destroy it,
the Sword of Power is within your grasp.
If you dare try to claim credit for this,
we swear, we--
Not at all.
How's your mother?
Dead.
Then you've done all this by yourself.
Bravo, Uther.
I'm proud of you.
[chuckles]
We must confess we have...
longed to hear these words from you.
I mean them.
The midwife was your mother's crime,
Uther.
Not yours.
If you wish to be recognized
as the one true king,
you still have a chance to earn it.
Your way.
Let's end this business
with the sword today.
And so I ask you again:
What are your intentions
with the Fey girl?
You knew?
You knew all along.
You and her, together.
Let's not dwell on the past, Uther.
You are the...
king of lies.
Will you keep your word?
You need your rest.
-[yells]
-[grunts]
[groans]
[strangled breaths]
[exhales slowly, weakly]
Get him out of our sight.
[guard grunts]
[poignant music plays]
[horse brays]
[waves crash]
A sail!
[man 1] There.... sails.
[man 2] The king has kept his word.
[man 3] This is our chance.
She did it.
[man 4] They have the biggest sails.
-[Arthur] She's saved the Fey!
-[cheering]
[door hinge squeaks, creaks]
Hello?
[footsteps approach]
Is someone there?
[footsteps recede]
[tense music plays]
[distant footsteps]
[scraping]
Who's that?
[ominous music plays]
[Nimue] Sir Steuben.
[Steuben] A raven just arrived.
"Pendragon ships are here. Boarding now."
The king has kept his word.
"All my love. Arthur."
This pleases me, milady.
[exhales slowly]
[relieved sigh]
They're safe.
[sighs]
[ethereal music plays]
[horse brays]
[birds screech]
[mystical twinkling]
[eerie whooshing]
My love.
Are you truly here?
You see me, don't you?
-Yeah, but I don't know what to believe.
-[Celia] Believe your eyes.
And be grateful for the sight
you've been given.
To see death is a gift for us both.
For I don't feel so alone.
[mystical twinkling]
Here.
You're not alone.
I feel so ashamed.
[Morgana] Why?
For doubting you.
For standing in your way.
No, you never stood in my way.
You knew your destiny,
but it frightened me.
And yet here you are,
on the precipice of all that you seek.
To see between worlds,
to know the shadows' secrets.
Oh, Celia, I fear I'm not ready.
[whispers] Silly bird,
of course you're not ready.
You've only just begun.
Look at what you've accomplished already.
What have I accomplished?
You have the sword.
Bring the sword
to the temple of the Cailleach,
so that your instruction may begin.
This is how you will save the Fey.
No, it wasn't given to me.
She asked me to hold it for her.
She entrusted me with it.
I know you care for her,
but this is where Nimue's journey ends,
my love.
-I'm so sorry.
-No.
I want to help her,
but the Widow stalks her.
[Morgana] No!
A daughter of Death,
there's no escaping her summons.
I have to warn her.
Morgana.
Morgana!
Don't confront the Widow.
She's not of this world!
[ominous music plays]
[indistinct yelling]
[paladin 1] Get rid of the witch!
-[paladin 2] Burn her!
-[paladin 3] She's evil!
[paladins shout threats]
[paladins] Witch! Devil! Burn her!
Horrible!
-Get rid of her!
-Devil witch!
Well?
She doesn't have the sword, Your Majesty.
Why not? Where is it?
I'm...
-It is in--
-Do you think you're very clever?
No. No, Your...
-Where's the bloody sword?
-[ominous music plays]
[breathes shakily]
She mocks your kindness, Your Majesty.
I wouldn't waste another breath on her.
We are more than capable of drawing out
the location of the sword from her.
Indeed it would be a privilege.
[Abbot] Give us the witch,
and the sword will be yours by sundown,
Your Highness.
Do you presume us merciful, girl?
You presume wrong.
You are aware what awaits you
should we hand you over to Father Carden
and his Red Paladins?
Very aware, Your Majesty.
He had my mother killed.
Burned my village down. Burned them all.
I know him well.
[Carden] And before it is done,
we will humble you before Almighty God,
girl, I swear it.
That's what your boys in Gramaire thought.
[tense music plays]
And Yvoire Abbey and the Red Lake.
You've emboldened this witch,
Your Majesty.
We will ask you very simply now, girl:
Where's the sword?
You will have your sword.
As soon as the Green Knight and the boy,
Squirrel, are returned to me alive.
That Fey assassin and his little spy
are our prisoners, Your Majesty.
They're not for trading.
Then you have Squirrel?
Aye.
And if you don't sing for us,
he most surely will.
Touch him,
and I'll see you choked on your own blood!
-Divine forces protect me, demon.
-Enough!
If my people are not returned,
by the Hidden,
I vow you will never see
the Sword of Power.
[Carden] Your Majesty,
give her to us.
[Nimue] Torture me.
Skin me to my bones. I'll never tell you.
I'm ready to die, Carden. Are you?
[Uther] Gods,
it will give us great pleasure
to be rid of you both.
You have your bloody nerve.
To make further demands on us
after we have dealt with you so fairly.
You have my life, Your Highness.
If you want my sword as well,
it comes at a cost.
Your sword?
[chuckles]
[whispers] Your Majesty,
if Carden takes, Carden's sword...
Take her away and keep her under guard
while we consider these demands.
[dramatic music plays]
[distant yelling]
[dramatic music continues]
[music stops]
[eerie whooshing, slithering]
[ghostly screeching]
[Widow] Did I not warn you?
Come along. Quick!
In the boat.
Come on! Quickly!
Come on. Quick! Quick! Quick!
[groans]
[groaning]
[panicked screaming]
Raiders!
[Arthur] Cumber the Ice King's army!
We'll hold them off!
Pym, Kaze,
get the others to the rocks. Go!
Go!
[panicked screaming]
To the rocks! This way!
[panicked yelling]
Wait.
[raider army yells]
[panicked screaming]
[Arthur] Get ready!
Slaughter them all!
[all] For Cumber!
Charge!
[Fey folk yell]
[yelling]
[raider yells]
[horse squeals]
Everyone to the back!
[man] Quick!
[panicked shrieks, sobbing]
[man] We've cut off the Fey convoy
from boarding the Pendragon ships,
Lord Cumber.
There will be no survivors.
You have kept your promise
to the Red Paladins.
[distant screaming echoes]
[yelling]
[dramatic music plays]
-[yells]
-[grunts]
-[groans]
-[yelling]
-[Wroth] There are more of them coming!
Fall back to the cliffs!
[man] Look! More Viking ships!
[Pym] No! It's the Red Spear!
[man] There! You see?
[battle cries continue]
[yells]
[grunts]
[groans]
[raider] Yeah!
Wroth!
[Wroth groans]
Hey! Get up. Come on.
Wroth, get up.
[Arthur breathes heavily]
[coughs]
[Wroth] Protect them.
As I speak these words,
my sister Dagmar is butchering
the last of the Fey on the Beggar's Coast.
The Church looks forward
to its partnership with the Ice King.
We agreed.
The witch and her kind for the sword.
But I'm told she came empty-handed.
Uther indulges her.
He debases the crown
by catering for the she-devil.
But a few hours with us,
and she'll soon know her place.
Spill her secrets.
[tense music plays]
Uther Pendragon,
the false king,
has chosen the Fey over God.
[paladins] No!
Should his men raise their swords
against you,
defend yourselves.
Kill who you must.
Just bring me the Wolf-Blood Witch.
[paladins] Yeah!
[Red Spear] Kill all Cumber's raiders,
but leave Dagmar to me!
-[horse whinnies]
-[raiders yell]
[yelling]
Stay here!
[grunting]
[yelling]
[horse whinnies]
[grunting]
[Arthur groans]
-Red Spear!
-[Arthur gasps]
[raider] For the Red Spear!
[grunting]
[roaring]
[groans loudly]
[grunting]
[groaning]
[Red Spear] Cumber can't protect you now.
[both yelling]
[roaring]
[raider groans]
[yelling]
[Arthur grunts]
[grunting]
[yelling]
[both grunting]
[yells]
[gasps, groans]
[battle cries continue]
[Red Spear]
The Ice King's throne will be mine!
Tell your sister Eydis
she's next!
[roars]
[battle cries continue]
[indistinct yelling]
Shall we play now?
You're the ugliest of them all.
Inside and out.
Kill me, fine.
But you'll still be you forever.
That's a worse hell
than anything I can think of.
[exhales slowly]
The tongue first, I think.
Go on. Take it. I'll still keep talking.
I'll be in your nightmares talking,
telling you how ugly you are.
When you try and wake up,
your eyes won't open
'cause you sewed them up
like a bloody idiot!
[curtain opens]
Who is there?
Come to watch, my weeping brother?
[tense music plays]
[sword slices rope]
[curtain opens]
[Gawain grunts]
Here's the bag of shit you ordered.
Gawain. [breathes heavily]
Gawain.
[poignant music plays]
[Nimue] Gawain?
Gawain.
Gawain?
No.
No!
Not you. Not you!
[sobs] Gawain! No!
[sobs] Gawain!
[sobs]
[screams]
[gasping breaths]
-[indistinct whispering]
-[gasping breaths]
-[slithering]
[indistinct whispering intensifies]
[rattling]
[breathing heavily]
[paladins scream]
The paladins are attacking! To arms!
Find the witch!
[yelling]
[dramatic music plays]
I wouldn't.
Does he remind you of someone?
This Fey orphan?
-You don't need him.
-[Abbot] Why?
Can't he smell out his own kind
like some kind of animal?
Or is that just your species?
[monk] Find cover.
[Abbot] You do have a reputation,
but this is the Trinity Guard.
You know their skill.
So be it.
[tense music plays]
[paladin] She's here.
[Nimue groans, grunts]
[slithering]
[reverential music plays]
[reverential music continues]
[groans]
[grunting, groaning]
[yells]
[reverential music continues]
-[grunting]
-[monk groans]
-[paladins grunt]
[grunting]
[impacts]
[groans]
[squelching]
[monk coughs]
[flail rattles]
[groans]
Who's first?
[ominous music plays]
[grunts]
[grunting]
[groans]
[yells]
-[monk grunts]
-[screams]
[bones snap]
[monk breathes heavily]
[ethereal music plays]
[strained breathing]
Come on! We have to go.
Come on!
Get up!
[Squirrel strains]
[monk] Come on.
[Squirrel grunts]
[Squirrel breathes heavily]
[paladin 1] We found her.
[Nimue grunts]
-Get off!
-[paladin 2] Kill the witch!
[paladin 3] Slay the Wolf-Blood Witch!
[Nimue grunts, breathes heavily]
Hold her!
We delay God's justice no longer.
Sword or no sword, tonight...
we send you back to Hell.
[ominous music plays]
[eerie wind howls]
What evil is this?
[mystical twinkling]
[paladin 4] Witchcraft!
What are you?
[eerie wind howls]
I'm the Widow.
[ethereal music plays]
[indistinct whispering]
[yelling]
[battle cries continue]
[dramatic music plays]
Morgana?
-What happened to you?
-[Morgana] I don't know.
I killed her, and...
then I became her.
Now I can feel who's about to die.
It's Merlin.
[gasps]
-[ethereal music plays]
-[eerie wind blows]
[Merlin] Yes.
Yes.
No.
Merlin?
[strained breathing]
[whispers] Go.
No. You're coming with us.
[mystical twinkling]
Why can't I die?
[Merlin groans lightly]
[woman] Somebody help me here.
I owe you a debt.
For that arrow.
I'm glad to hear it.
Consider us even.
I am the Red Spear,
exile of the court of Cumber the Ice King.
A court now under siege by traitors.
I'm Arthur.
We'll do all in our power
to help your people...
if you help save our queen.
[Nimue] If we make it to Rabbit's Cross,
we can lose them in the narrows.
Come on.
[Merlin] Leave me.
[groans] Leave me!
[Nimue groans]
[poignant music plays]
I can't go any further.
Rest here.
You watch over him.
I'm going back for Squirrel.
Iris?
[Morgana] Iris, stop!
No!
No, no, no! No!
[Morgana cries]
[groans]
-[Merlin] No! No!
-[screams]
-[Merlin grunts]
-[Nimue shrieks]
[Nimue grunts]
[breathes heavily]
[grunts]
-[Nimue grunts]
-Nimue.
Father.
-[screams]
-[Merlin] No!
[sobs] No!
[ethereal music plays]
[sobs]
-[breathes shakily]
-[Merlin continues sobbing]
[ethereal music continues]
[seething breaths]
[wind howls]
[ethereal music continues]
[mystical twinkling]
[thunder rumbles]
[dramatic music plays]
[sparks sizzle]
[paladin screams]
-[lightning cracks]
-[Iris screams]
[speaking magical language]
[continues speaking magical language]
-[mystical twinkling]
-[continues speaking magical language]
[continues speaking magical language]
-[paladins yell]
-[continues speaking magical language]
[paladins yell, scream]
[paladins scream]
[dramatic music plays]
[mystical twinkling]
[eerie wind howls]
[hoofbeats approach]
[monk] What was your name, boy?
Squirrel.
A squirrel is an animal.
What name were you given?
I don't like that name.
It's still your name.
Fine.
It's Percival.
Percival.
Do you have a real name?
Lancelot.
A long time ago, my name was Lancelot.
[epic music plays]
Out of the darkness,
there always comes a light,
blinding in its clarity,
searing in its strength,
pure as our Lord God is pure.
For make no mistake,
to smite the Wolf-Blood Witch,
God has sent us his own avenging angel.
Today, we add to the ranks of the Trinity
a new warrior of God.
Rise...
Sister Iris.
Together,
we shall accomplish great miracles,
my child.
[ominous music plays]
[gasping breaths]
[gasping breaths continue]
[gentle instrumental music plays]
[eerie ethereal music plays]
[music ends]